---
layout: page
title: Our Privacy Policy
---

This privacy policy ("Policy") explains how we collect, use, and share information about you when you use our mobile application (the "App"). By using the App, you agree to the collection, use, and sharing of your information as described in this Policy.

## Information We Collect

We collect the following types of information when you use the App:

* Advertising ID: We use an advertising ID to personalize the advertisements that are shown to you within the App. This ID is a unique, anonymous identifier that is generated by your device and used for advertising purposes. You can reset your advertising ID or opt out of personalized advertising by adjusting your device's settings.
* Usage and Preference Information: We use Google Analytics and Firebase to collect information about how you use the App and your preferences within the App. This may include data about the features you use, the pages you visit, and the settings you select.
* Device Information: We collect information about the device you use to access the App, including the hardware model, operating system and version, and device identifier.
Use of Information

We use the information we collect to operate and improve the App, to personalize your experience, and to show you advertisements that are more relevant to your interests. We may also use this information for research and analytics purposes.

## Sharing of Information

We may share the information we collect with third parties for the purposes described in this Policy. These third parties may include:

* Advertisers and Advertising Networks: We use AdMob to show you advertisements within the App. AdMob may use the information we collect, including your advertising ID, to personalize the advertisements that are shown to you.
* Service Providers: We may share your information with third-party service providers who help us operate and improve the App. These service providers may include Google Analytics and Firebase. See [Google Play Services](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/) and [Firebase Analytics](https://firebase.google.com/policies/analytics).
* Legal Disclosures: We may disclose your information if required to do so by law or if we believe that such action is necessary to comply with legal process, to protect the rights and safety of our users or the public, or to enforce our policies.

## Your Choices

You can control the information that is collected and shared through the App by adjusting your device's settings. You can also opt out of personalized advertising by adjusting your device's settings.

## Changes to This Policy

We may update this Policy from time to time to reflect changes to our practices or for other operational, legal, or regulatory reasons. We encourage you to review the Policy periodically for the latest information on our privacy practices.

## Contact Us

If you have any questions about this Policy or our privacy practices, please contact us at caspar.wrede @ gmail dot com.
